1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4, 1. 3, 2, 1, 4, 3,
2, 1, 4, 3, 2, 1, 4, 3, 2, 1. Listen. 1, 2, 3, 4,
1, 2, 3, 4, x, y. That's me. Here I am. 1, 2, 3, 4.
This is October 17, I believe. That's right. And
sitting in the Engineering Physics Building,
talking with the Dean Emeritus of Engineering,
Robert H. H? H, as in Henry. Robert H. Page. Bob, to
begin with, to introduce yourself to anyone that
might listen to this tape or read the
transcription, describe your background before
you came to A&M. Where did you grow up? What did your
family do? Where did you go to high school and then
college? Okay. Born in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, city of brotherly love. And I was
fortunate. I went to a high school that was
competitive, Danner, the Central High School,
one of those prestigious high schools that had
something in common with the Alamo, both 1836. And
it also is the only high school in the nation that
has degree-granting authority. See, in 1836,
there weren't too many colleges around. The state
of Pennsylvania kind of referred to it as the
people's college. They gave them the authority.
They never took it away. But it's not for all
students. But anyway, I graduated from high
school. I graduated in January 1945. And at that
time, of course, there was a war going on. And there
were mid-year classes. Like all my other
17-year-olds, we all enlisted before
graduation. And I was very fortunate that I took
all these Army general classification tests and
got sent to VMI for their Army Specialized
Training Reserve Program. Spent one year there,
which was the maximum you could spend, and that was
equivalent to two years of college I found later.
But anyway, after that I went on active duty and
traveled all around the USA. Finally went over to
Hawaii where I was chief engineer of an armed
forces radio service station in Hawaii, station
KRHO. And then we were starting to get discharged
by then. The war in Europe was over. The war in Japan
was over. And I came back to the USA and tried to get
into a university. But as everyone will recall,
after World War II, that was very difficult. So I
kept going west from Philadelphia, ended up at
Ohio University, and in two years finished up my
bachelor's in mechanical engineering there,
then headed further west to University of
Illinois and got a master's and Ph.D. So that was
all the academic training. I did a little teaching
at Illinois. But then I went into industry with
ESSO, now called Exxon, ESSO Research and
Engineering Company on the East Coast. And while I
was there, I started teaching graduate courses at
night at Stevens Institute, also on the East Coast
in Hoboken, New Jersey. And then Stevens
Institute recruited me to come full time. So I left
the private world there and went to Stevens and
stayed there four years before Rutgers
University recruited me as a department head.
When was that? New Brunswick, New Jersey. That was
1961. And I served as department head for
mechanical engineering. It expanded. It became
mechanical and nuclear, mechanical, nuclear,
and aerospace as things grew. And finally then,
after 15 years of that, I thought I'd do something
different. So I stepped out of the department
head's job. and was doing some research. I was very
fortunate. I had a contract from the Air Force
Office of Scientific Research, and they gave them
all crazy names. This was called a Themis program,
which made Themis, a Greek name, T-H-E-M-I-S.
And that was one of those programs that during the
70s, certain students didn't like, but
nevertheless, it was a good program. Brought in
about a million dollars in research. But then, so
things were going well, but then I got a very nice
letter from Mac Prescott saying that I had been
nominated for the dean's job here, and he
explained a lot about the dean's job. Now, this is
70... This would have been... 78, 79? 78, yeah, 78.
Do you have any idea who, how, forwarded your name?
I had no idea, no. I think Mack indicated later that
there was more than one. But in fact, what I had to do
right away after getting that nice letter was find
out exactly where Texas A&M University was. What
did you learn about A&M in that research, in that
inquiry? Oh, well, what I did was I talked to a lot of
people, and actually I only knew one person. I only
saw him once in a while at ASME, American Society of
Mechanical Engineering, meetings, and that was
George Thompson. And George Thompson was
well-known. I could chat with him, but I didn't see
him often enough to get a lot of information. But I
looked in all the usual reference books, talked to
people at the National Science Foundation, and I
was an officer in the accreditation program so I
could look up and see how A&M was doing that way. So
the best thing to do was to accept the challenge and
come down and see what it was all about. So that
turned out to be very nice because I was impressed
with Mac Prescott right away. describe the search
process as you would call it. The search process. I
was contacted and then I did a little study, wrote a
letter back and said I'd like to find out more and I
came down and Mac met me at the airport and Then
there was a group of, there was a search committee
that I met with and got shown around a lot. Did the
search process, as far as you recall, was it, did it
end up being a positive? Did it increase your
interest or was the process not well done? Oh, I
think it was very well done, yeah. I think it was
very well done. They had some good faculty on the
search team. Most of them aren't here anymore, but
they did a good job. What were your key concerns?
Well, my key concerns was where was the College of
Engineering going? And I had a little bit of a
feeling that it was kind of standing still in the
world as it existed at that time, because the...
Actually the faculty weren't well known outside
the state of Texas and I found that by talking to
people in other disciplines as well. And that's
not because they didn't visit outside but because
they weren't publishing or getting any sort of
national reputation that way. So there were some
but it wasn't by any means even a small. minority
doing that. So I was concerned where they were
going and what kind of resources were available
and facilities and so forth. And Mac Prescott was
very honest with me. He pointed out that there were
challenges, that things weren't in as good shape
as they really should be. The graduate school
operation in engineering was not really growing.
There was a shortage of space for operations and
that it would be a challenge. Well, actually that
sort of interested me because I always liked
challenges rather than having them come if it was a
nice smooth job and I would just take care of
things. So that went well, and after that, we went
back and thought about it some more, and then got an
invitation to bring my wife down as well, bring
Lola down, and we looked around again. We checked
some things in town, you know, churches and stores
and things like that, and it looked good to us. What
was your candid impression of Bryan College
Station? I thought it was a nice, friendly town.
And, of course, we noticed at that time, we noticed
that everything closed up early. Nothing stayed
open late at night or anything like that. By late at
night, I mean after 6 p.m. But then the next thing
was I got a call from Jarvis Miller. Of course, I had
met Jarvis during my visits, and he made the offer
to me to come down, and I accepted the offer. And
what was that beginning salary? The beginning
salary was $61,500 per year. What did that seem
like to you at that time? Actually, I was coming
from my rather well-paid university. Rutgers
University has always been in the top class, and I
was in what they call a professor two category. So
it seemed reasonable. It wasn't an increase for me
or anything like that. Did anybody give you any
directions or advice? set any goals for you as you
first got here? I think a goal that stuck in my mind
the most, number one, was what Mac Prescott kept
impressing, and that was quality. And every time I
talked with him, he, quality, quality. And that
was the way I felt about it, too. So that was number
one. The other goal, when I talked to Jarvis
Miller, the president, from what I had seen, I
thought a goal was to try to get a better management
operation for the College of Engineering because
the faculty were answering to two bosses one being
the dean on the academic side and one being a uh...
experiment station on the other side both bosses
controlled their salaries and so forth so it
didn't seem to me like the best management so i
talked to jarvis miller about that and he thought
well that probably could be done but uh... it took
time to get that done now at rutgers You didn't have
the separate experiment station? We did not have a
separate experiment station like that, no.
In terms of reporting responsibility, you
reported to Mike Prescott. That's correct. As you
arrived, describe the leadership staff that you
inherited in engineering. Who were the key
people? Well, actually, the former dean, Dean
Benson, had moved out of the position, and there
was someone just filling in whose name I don't
recall. Things had been just sort of kept the doors
open, broach. And there was no associate dean,
which meant I had to find one quickly. And then the
others in the game then were... not of the caliber I
would like to see in those positions. What about
office staff? The office staff brought in a new
secretary for me who didn't have too much
experience. It would have been better if I had
someone that knew how to play the games and handle
the paperwork, but she worked out all right. There
was a fairly large office staff and they got the
jobs done. And you all were located They were all
located in the Zachry building in one office up
there where my office was a room off of that, yes.
Was that physical space adequate? It wasn't
really, no, and it was sort of what people like to
call a bullpen. There were no dividers that
separated one from another, so it was just sort of a
wide open space but not open enough because there
wasn't enough room and they were into each other,
their desks. How did you and your wife become
acquainted with Texas A&M and Bryan College
Station and Texas things, Aggie things? Well,
that worked out very well for us. We seemed to
really enjoy it. And we were often asked the
question, well, was it hard to move from New Jersey
to Texas? And we said, not difficult at all. But
nobody could move from Texas to New Jersey. They
had been here a long time. Were there any people
that now in hindsight you realize were very
helpful, particularly helpful to you as a
newcomer? Oh, well, certainly Glenn Phillips was
very helpful, and people like John Calhoun I had
known through the American Society for
Engineering Education, very helpful, but it
seemed like no one gave us any problems, and we were
We had help from a lot of people when we moved here.
And you began your service on when? I think the
technical date was August the 1st, 1979. And
describe the College of Engineering. Where was it
physically? What was where? Well, the college
itself was primarily in the Zachry building. Most
of the operations were there. But the
complication was with the experiment station. It
was hard to see where the line was drawn because
most of the faculty, over half of them at that time,
had appointments for their salary, part of their
salary in the experiment station. Well we had a
separate civil engineering building and of
course many of the buildings you see today weren't
even here. But the one I, it was interesting
because when I really got busy and started to study
the space situation, the space for the academic
operations had decreased over the last four years
and the space for the T's and TTI operations had
increased so the net effect looked like
engineering was getting more. But what I had a
strong interest in was to make sure that academic
was holding up and they were going down. Did you set
any goals for yourself? Well, I did. I wanted to see
some things improve right away. I didn't know how
long it would take. But quite frankly, the
computing situation was not up to the standard it
should have been that I had known in other
universities by inspecting them, accreditation
visits and so forth. So that was one high goal. I
wanted to see us get some fellowships to support
graduate students, too, so the graduate program
could roll. and to get more interest in general
from the faculty about graduate studies and
things of that sort. So those were really my
primary goals and to try then to get A&M College of
Engineering more on the map so it's more
recognized. As you learned more about the
programs here, compared to programs elsewhere?
What were the strongest programs here and then at
the other extreme, which were the least strong?
Well, the strongest, with no question, was the
civil engineering program. And Donald McDonald
was the department head at the same time. He had
good faculty. They were very productive. doing a
good job all around. When I reviewed department
heads during my tenure as dean, I visited every
person in the department in their office. I wanted
to see how they were doing. I didn't want to drag
them over to my office. And when I visited for his
review, it was no question that it was a
first-class operation from the department head
on down. So it was the strongest, no question. I
think it's hard to say who was really the weakest,
but electrical engineering could have used a lot
more help to get straightened out. I didn't
realize until later that there were some problems
there. the uh... one time the department head
hadn't taught a course for I don't know how many
years you know fifteen or twenty years and wasn't
really into it that way at all and so uh...
petroleum engineering normally well petroleum
engineering as you know It has a special position
that there are very few petroleum engineering
departments and they're always rating number one
or number two or something like that. Then you take
a program like mechanical engineering that might
come in eighteen and it doesn't look good but
there's two hundred and some out there.
Were there any program vacancies? Was there
anything that the College of Engineering at A&M
didn't, any program we didn't have that you
thought we should? Well, that was pretty obvious.
They didn't have anybody really putting emphasis
on computing at that time. So I decided, and it took
a long time, that we should have a computer science
department. And that took about four years or so to
get it through the state board and all get
approval. But that was the main thing. Then the
other thing that worried me, to be quite honest,
was I thought some of the programs were too large,
including mechanical engineering. When you have
50 faculty or so and they don't know each other, It
seemed large and I did toy with an idea that maybe
mechanical should be split and Arrow had a group
interested in mechanics and have those people
that are doing the mechanic side of it, the
material side of it, make a separate group for
them, but I never carried that out. But it still
bothered me that the departments were so large I
could talk to a faculty member and they didn't know
other faculty members. When you arrived, the
total enrollment in engineering was about what?
Oh, man, I looked up those numbers the other day.
Compared to now? Compared to now, shall I say. It's
amazing how high they were. When I arrived, it was
8,070. and in nineteen uh... eighty two eighty
three just before uh... i had four years as dean was
eleven thousand nine hundred and six now that's
more than we have today and of course we had a much
smaller faculty and much less space but uh... well
the faculty were overloaded no question about it
And it went up even a little bit that way. So the four
year change from 78 to just 82 was a 48% increase
without a faculty increase like that. Looking at
all your years here, compare your impression of
Aggie engineering students to those you had known
in New Jersey. Well, that's hard to say because
time makes a big difference when you start talking
about students. And probably most people my age
that have looked at the situation would say in a lot
of ways today's student is not as well prepared
coming out of high school as they were, say, 10
years ago or something like that. No, but I'm
meaning when you first got here. Oh, when I first
got here, yeah.
The Aggies were dedicated. And I talked to an awful
lot of young men, mainly young men then because we
didn't have many women in the program. but a few
women too that had been hoping to go to A&M since
they were kids. And they wanted to get the most out
of it. And I always think that's the best recipe for
success in college. They would try hard while they
were here. So that impressed me quite a bit. The
students that I had back at Rutgers as a department
head, they weren't that dedicated. But they were
good students too, yeah. Did you have more coeds up
there than here? Yeah, because we probably
started pressing it earlier to try to get up to 15%
or so in female. That was kind of the goal or
objective. And did we have fewer minorities here?
We had fewer minorities here at first, yeah.
Experiment Station. Who headed the Engineering
Experiment Station when you arrived? I'm trying
to think of the gentleman's name at first. He was
just here a very short time. He'd been here
forever. I say forever, but I can't think of his
name. But shortly after that, Porter. Skip Porter
became head of the Experiment Station. Describe
relations between the dean and the director. I'd
say they weren't too good because the problem was
that the experiment station was just interested
in bringing in research that would help the
experiment station. Their goal was more dollars,
and the dean's was quality in the academic
program. So the relationship was a problem, and I
know one of the problems was when it came to
promotion and tenure and things like that. And it
took a while to get that straightened out, but
finally the chancellor changed also during my
time as dean, and Art Hanson came in. He made it
quite clear that it was the university's
responsibility, the academic side, to decide on
things like promotion and tenure. All right.
Let's talk about this, because this is an
important matter. During your time as dean, who
initiated primarily, who initiated the
employment of a new person? Was it the Experiment
Station or the College of Engineering? Or both?
That's a good question. Both. Both, yeah. Do you
remember some that the Experiment Station hired
that the College of Engineering didn't want? Oh,
they could easily do that. Is that right? Yeah,
they could easily do that. And did you all hire
some? Because they had people working 100% for
them. Okay. Were there some faculty members that
they wouldn't support at all? I didn't know that,
but as I said, when I looked at the records, there
were well over half of the College of Engineering
faculty that were supported by the Experiment
Station. You said promotions. Sometimes give
some examples without being specific by name.
Give some examples of some of the awkwardness.
I think there was a difference in the way the
quality of the individual was measured and when it
came to promotions, when it came to the final step
after the department head had done his work, I met
with the dean, with me, and with the head of the
experiment station and also usually the head of
the Texas Transportation Institute and anyone
else that might be appropriate and we talked about
each individual. But again, it was that the
academic viewpoint was different than the
others. And it wouldn't matter what an individual
was doing as far as teaching and encouraging
students and so forth. If he was bringing in lots of
money from the experiment station, they want to
move that person ahead. So that's where the
squabbles really came up. And these individuals
were housed quite often in adjoining offices,
some who were primarily Experiment Station. Oh
yeah, definitely. And so they picked up their mail
near each other and so forth. Normally, who
initiated a proposal for promotion and rank? That
would be the department head, but the department
head's salary is half on the experiment. Every
department head was paid by the experiment
station as well. While you were dean, if the
department heads had had to make a choice, do you
think they would have voted pro-college or pro-
That would be a real guess, but I know that the
Experiment Station could, since they had
something to say about the salary, they could make
salary increases for the department head. The
department heads knew that without going to the
dean. And there were a few also who were
engineering extension service. Oh, yes. Very
few. Now, that was Jim Bradley? That's right.
Describe working with Jim.
No problem. No problem with Jim? No. And Charlie
Wooten, no problem. Because I have coffee with Jim
every other Saturday or so at Shipley, so I see him.
Interviewed Charlie Wooten not long ago. Let's
see, he's got a health problem right now. Oh, he
does? I'm sorry to hear that. Yeah. What is it?
Because I believe he's getting ready to go through
radiation.
He looked thinner than I had remembered. Let's
talk about this matter then in theory. If you could
have created the organizational structure, how
do you think A&M then could have best been
organized in engineering? Well, if I had anything
to say about the organizational structure, which
I talked to Jarvis Miller about and Mac Prescott,
it's obvious that there has to be a dean that's in
charge of both research and teaching and any other
ideas closely related to that because my theory
always has been and it's usually worked is that the
best teachers are scholars or researchers that
love to teach but just being scholars or
researchers is not enough and just loving to teach
is not enough either it's got to be that
combination. Is that normally the pattern at
other land-grant schools that you know of? Oh, I
think so, yeah. In fact, a lot of people thought it
was very strange when they heard of the system that
we had here where we had two bosses. And so many
faculty members said to me personally, they said,
this is a strange system. I have two people I have to
report to.
I know that during... the year that you and I served
together, I know that that was one of the pulls and
tugs in engineering and agriculture. Were you
aware, as we got into 1980, were you aware that
there was approaching a crisis where Jarvis was
advocating the structure that you wanted? Were
you aware that there was a crisis coming? No, I
would not. None at all. In fact, I was, I think, out
of town in June of 80 when the secretary, my
secretary called me and said, I want you to be
informed that Jarvis Miller is being reassigned.
How did she learn? I don't know. Did someone call
her? I don't know. I heard a story once which might
be true. In fact, you might have even told me this,
that things are being confidential at A&M means
you only tell one person at a time. There you go. I
learned about it the night that we arrived in El
Paso to begin my new task. Mac had called the...
motel where we were spending the night, but I
didn't get the message till 10.30 mountain time.
So I didn't, I was going to wait till the next
morning, because it would have been 11.30 here,
and by 7 o'clock mountain time, three reporters
had called me. to ask for comments.
During this first year with Prescott and Jarvis,
can you give some examples of their positive
support and encouragement? Oh, well, I always
felt that Mack thought that was the way to go. Mac
Prescott, and Jarvis seemed to go along with it. In
fact, I was very optimistic that Jarvis was going
to make sure that got done. Did you and the other
deans talk about this much? Not too much because
they didn't have that problem. Agriculture
didn't have it as much as engineering? Well they
didn't indicate that it was a problem. I knew
faculty in agriculture but they seemed to be happy
with their situation. During the years that you
were a dean With which other deans did you have the
closest relationship? Probably business.
Business? Yeah, because we had common problems.
We couldn't hire the faculty we want. We didn't
have the dollars we needed to hire. Who was the
business dean then? Bill Mews. Bill, who's now
president at Auburn. Right. And deans met
normally well we had that uh... APC yeah the
academic council or whatever it was called yeah
academic program in the coke building yeah on
monday uh monday right describe those meetings as
you recall them oh they were very good meetings i i
uh You must have sat in on him. Mac Prescott ran
them. I thought he did a good job. He gave everybody
a chance to talk that had anything to say. In fact,
his standard operating procedure was to go around
the table and ask everybody by name. He'd come to
me, Bob, do you have anything to say? And go right on
around. So I thought it worked very well, that
system. I was sorry to see it go when they changed
the whole system. How did, when Jarvis was
reassigned and Chuck Sampson became the interim
president, what did that mean for engineering?
Did anything change? No. I think Chuck Sampson was
just minding the store. And he knew all the
department heads well for being here a long time.
And I was told that he wanted to be dean. He reminded
me he wasn't too happy about me being dean, but he
was just minding his store. All right, then Frank
Vandiver came after him. That's right. So I had
three presidents in four years and two
chancellors.
Describe Vandiver's relationship with the Dean
of Engineering. Well, Vandiver was, from the
minute he came, was very open. I immediately
invited him to come over and talk to the faculty,
which he did. And he was willing to talk to me about
anything. He was not going to fool around too much
with the high-level politics, he said. But I did
point out the problems we had. He agreed with me
right from the start that we should get this
organization straightened out. In fact, he wrote
a nice letter to the faculty at the time that we were
going to finally get it straightened out. At that
time, he called in all the TTI, Tease, myself, I'm
trying to think who else was there, but into his
office and said that he now saw that we should have a
different organization for engineering and that
probably the best way to carry it out was to start
looking for a new super dean was the term he used and
that was kicked around a lot in the media. It was
dropped after a while. But that was one way of
describing it. But then he wrote a nice letter to
the faculty, and I said, well, we've got to have a
faculty meeting right away. The faculty know, and
he agreed to come to the faculty meeting, and then
the provost agreed. At that time, we had a provost.
We no longer had a vice president for academic
affairs. The provost agreed to come as well. Was
McDonald, by that time, was he the... Chief
academic officer or was that Mack Prescott? Mack
Prescott.
But I'm trying to think, what was the timing on
that? I know Eaton had taken over as provost
before. In fact, Mack decided that it was time to,
with all these presidents changing, to move out.
Now, you mentioned Chancellor Hanson. Yeah. He
was an engineer. Right. Did you know him before he
came here? Yes, I did. I didn't know him very well,
but I knew of him. I had one of his books. He wrote an
engineering book. He's probably still sitting
over there. And, of course, I talked to him about
the situation also, and he said he couldn't
understand why it was organized that way. That's
when he's sitting in the chancellor's seat. He
said... I told, I guess he said I told Frank
Vanderveer, these are not the exact words, but the
idea that I'm amazed he could hire a dean under that
situation. that it had to be direct control. It
couldn't be having one person serve two masters
all the time with different objectives. All
right. Did they move then to make the change? Yes,
they did. That helped it along. I think then after
Art Hanson had talked to me about that, I think then
he must have talked to Frank. That's because the
time schedule seemed to be such that then Frank
called the meeting and we went ahead. And so that
change came in... In the summer of 83, you know.
Okay. During your period of service, describe
what you are most proud of having accomplished.
Oh, boy. Well, there was an awful lot, actually.
What I was most proud of... I think I was proud that
we got industry involved. We started and we had
industrial advisory committees for every
department. And I finally totaled them up once. I
think I had the number over here somewhere to how
many we had.
it was rather impressive we had uh... two hundred
seventy three people from industry serving
directly on departmental advisories committee
so we had that kind of interaction at first people
said well you can't do that there's no industry in
college station and brian i said well i wasn't
thinking of college station and brian it's a big
state so uh... we had i was proud of uh... that fact
that we got uh... got those involved and then also
uh... another thing that uh... it turned out very
well the college of engineering should have some
sort of honors that they bestow on alumni of course
the alumni association uh... former students
were doing that but at a lower level so i initiated
that where the faculty could make
recommendations and we'd pick three or four maybe
five each year and bring them in that turned out
very well because for so many of them uh... they
were extremely good and we gave them the notoriety
and publicity they moved up one up the line to key
positions
that has kept running very well over the years so
that was good to get that external
impact that way and all those people that came in
actually we honored them but they continued to do a
lot for us worked out very well. Sounds like a good
investment. Yeah, I think so. And then I was proud
of the fact that we really finally got the computer
situation improved tremendously. How'd you do
that? Well, it took time. When I first came here
there were some requests coming through and
somebody asked me for my opinion of it and they were
buying a lot of card program calculators And these
were things that punched the holes. And it was a
real bargain. You could get them from IBM very
cheap. But I said, no, that mode is changing. And
there was a big fuss about that. Actually, Jarvis
Miller was concerned about computing. I wrote him
a couple of reports on that. We finally got an
up-to-date computer through some donations from
Pat Zachary and other sources and got it right in
the Zachary building. There was another computer
on campus that people weren't too happy with. I
think T's was controlling that, but the new
computer was located in the Zachry building and
faculty had access to it right away. So that was
just a step that got us moving that way, and then
people started getting personal computers on
their desks and things like that. It was
interesting, the first personal computer that
was purchased, I bought in the dean's office. And
that was a job, to get it through the purchasing
here and over at the state. Why would anybody want a
computer that sits on their desk? They thought of
them as big monsters somewhere. But anyway,
somebody had to break the ice there, I guess. Do you
have any idea what the investment cost was of that
one? Yeah, I do. It was very low power compared to
anything we had now, and it was about $6,000. Let's
see. Did you make some appointments that you now
think in hindsight were key appointments?
Some new faculty, some new... Well, I had to get an
associate dean. And so we went out and searched
there. We brought in a couple people. And one of
them was a person I had hired once before. When I was
at Rutgers as a department head, I had hired L.S.
Fletcher, Skip Fletcher. But he had left Rutgers
and gone to University of Virginia as department
head. He was well qualified for that position. So
he was one of the ones and we looked them all over and
the offer was made to Skip Fletcher and that turned
out very well. He was a very good man. And
department heads? He was an associate? No, no, no.
Oh, as department heads? Well, there wasn't,
unfortunately, there wasn't much turnover in
department heads.
during my period of time there. As an
administrator, if you could have it operated the
way you wanted it, what would be the key role of a
department head? What would be their major task?
Well, that's a good question. It's hard to say what
the key role is, but I always thought the
department had the interface between the faculty
and the dean, obviously. So the department head
should let the dean know where things are standing
as far as the teaching load on the faculty, the
instrumentation that's needed, the facilities,
and so forth, and have that all worked out in some
detail and bring it forth to the dean. Do you think
the department head should feel automatically
bound by a majority vote of the department? No, I
don't think he could progress then. He or she, I
should say, nowadays.
And how long should they serve? Well, that's hard
to say. Every school's got different ideas on how
long they should term. But the more I think about
it, that's one reason I stopped being a department
head. I thought three five-year terms was long
enough. And
I would say something like that maybe no longer
than fifteen years or ten years. Also, you're
saying a term and they're reviewed every so many
years. That's right. There should be a review,
definitely. Everybody should be reviewed. Did,
while you were dean, did y'all have any kind of
highly publicized problems with tenure,
promotion, termination?
No, we didn't have any big ones like that. No
lawsuits? No lawsuits, no. There was one where a
person falsified information about previous
degrees and things of that sort. That was on our
faculty already. But that was so clear cut that in
any court, if you give false information on your
application to begin with of that sort. Did that
person's employment terminate? That's right.
Let me... In terms of... exterior funding and so
forth, were there some key accomplishments in
engineering during your years as dean that you're
proud to look back on? Well, there were two.
is that uh... when i studied faculty salaries
uh... after i came here and got all that detailed
data compared it to average faculty salaries
which i could get from several sources uh... both
nationally and in this uh... region in the
southwest region uh... we were way behind
that meant that i went through the right channels
to the uh... board of regents and asked for funds
for that it didn't go over too well So I thought
about that a little bit more, and I talked to Bill
Mews, and then the two of us went. He was having the
same problem. He had made some studies. He had data
graphs just like I did where we could make our point
clearly. The data was there. And then it was
decided that there would be a special mid-year
salary increase with some funds given to both
deans. And, of course, we'd have to make the
allocations and so forth. Well, I thought that was
very important because it was very good for morale
to bring the faculty up and since there were no
special rules tied to that, somebody that was
really productive and for some reason hadn't been
acknowledged, he might end up with a ten percent or
twelve percent increase and others got one or two
percent, something like that. You know, the usual
mirth sort of thing. So that was, I thought that was
very important. and a major step forward. In those
years, which similar programs in engineering
were you watching most closely as your
comparators? You mean in other universities?
Probably University of Illinois because I had so
many friends there that they could give me
detailed data on things that are hard to get
otherwise unless you have extremely good
contacts. But there were others and we started
actually in sort of the Southwest Conference to
circulate some information. I started that on
teaching loads and faculty and things of that
sort. But the other point that I made, which I was
very proud of, and you can almost look out the
windows and see, and you're sitting in one of them,
is that I got the data on square feet per faculty
member from other universities and made charts on
that, and we were way beyond. We just needed more
space. And our space, as I mentioned earlier to
you, had decreased. over the last four or five
years because it was taken over by external
operations, the T's and TTI and so forth. So I had
that data and I went in and talked to the Board of
Regents about that and some of them didn't like it
because they said they thought everything was
great when the Zachry Building was completed.
They had been told that that would solve
everything for engineering. And I pointed out
that when the Zachry building was completed,
there were like 3,500 total students. We have
three times that right now. So, of course, that
wasn't too good either because they don't always
like to be corrected on something like that.